 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Sample Response 
This is a mid-level response. 
Transcript: 
For example, you’re going to purchase something which has the same price, so the 
choices, or the things that you have to look on is, uh, the quality, since they have the same 
price. So what do you mean by, uh, quality? So we’re looking the reliability as well as the 
features. So when is it reliable, it should work the way it should work, while with the 
features, what are present in the product. Now normally, if, uh, people purchase things 
now, they look more in the features rather than the reliability of the product. They, they 
look more on the things that the present and not on its use, which is actually not 
necessary. So, people tend to, or the consumers tend to focus more on the features rather 
than the reliability. 
Rationale: 
While the speaker’s pronunciation is clear and intonation is effective, the content is very 
vague and incomplete. Listeners who are not familiar with the lecture she is describing, 
would not be able to understand it from her  response. Her response captures a few key 
ideas from the lecture. However, she does  not  connect  her  ideas  by using  helpful  
transitional  expressions,  and as a result,  the  content  is  often difficult  for  the  listener to  
follow.  She  also  does  not  include  any specific  details  such  as  the  information about buying 
a car to help explain her ideas. So while she attempts to explain two aspects of quality, 
reliability and features, her explanation is vague and not complete. 
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-61

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Writing Section Directions 
In this section, you will be able to demonstrate your ability to use writing to communicate in an 
academic environment. There will be two writing tasks. 
In this practice test, you will be able to practice writing a response to each task and review sample 
responses. 
In the actual test, your responses will be scored on your ability to write correctly, clearly, and 
coherently, as well as on your ability to respond to the questions as fully as possible. 
Now read the directions for the first writing task. 
Writing Based on Reading and Listening 
First, you will read a passage about an academic topic. In the actual test, you will have 3 minutes 
to read it. Then you will listen to a lecture about the same topic. 
When the lecture has ended, you can start writing your response. In the actual test, you will have 
20 minutes to write. In your response, provide a detailed summary of the lecture and explain how 
the lecture relates to the reading passage. While you write, you will be able to see the reading 
passage again. You should try to make your response as complete as possible using information 
from the lecture and the reading passage. 
This practice test will show you mid-level and high-level sample responses. 
Now you will see the reading passage. It will be followed by a lecture transcript. 
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-62

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Writing Practice Task 1 
The Chevalier 
Toward the end of his life, the Chevalier de Seingalt (1725−1798) wrote a long memoir recounting 
his life and adventures. The Chevalier was a somewhat controversial figure, but since he met 
many famous people, including kings and writers, his memoir has become a valuable historical 
source about European society in the eighteenth century. However, some critics have raised doubts 
about the accuracy of the memoir. They claim that the Chevalier distorted or invented many 
events in the memoir to make his life seem more exciting and glamorous than it really was. 
For example, in his memoir the Chevalier claims that while living in Switzerland, he was very 
wealthy, and it is known that he spent a great deal of money there on parties and gambling. 
However, evidence has recently surfaced that the Chevalier borrowed considerable sums of money 
from a Swiss merchant. Critics thus argue that if the Chevalier had really been very rich, he would 
not have needed to borrow money. 
Critics are also skeptical about the accuracy of the conversations that the Chevalier records in the 
memoir between himself and the famous writer Voltaire. No one doubts that the Chevalier and 
Voltaire  met and  conversed.  However,  critics complain  that the  memoir  cannot  possibly  capture  
these conversations accurately, because it was written many years after the  conversations 
occurred. Critics point out that it is impossible to remember exact phrases from extended 
conversations held many years earlier.  
Critics have also questioned the memoir’s account of the Chevalier’s escape from a notorious 
prison in Venice, Italy. He claims to have escaped the Venetian prison by using a piece of metal to 
make a hole  in  the  ceiling  and  climbing  through  the  roof.  Critics  claim  that  while  such  a  daring 
escape  makes for  enjoyable reading,  it is  more  likely  that  the  Chevalier’s  jailers  were  bribed to  free  
him.  They  point out that the Chevalier had a number of politically well-connected friends in 
Venice who could have offered a bribe.  
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-63

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Narrator  
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about. 
Female Professor  
No memoir can possibly be correct in every detail, but still, the Chevalier’s 
memoir is pretty accurate overall and is, by and large, a reliable historical 
source. Let’s look at the accuracy of the three episodes mentioned in the 
reading. 
First, the loan from the merchant: Well, that doesn’t mean that the Chevalier 
was poor. Let me  explain. We know that in Switzerland, the Chevalier  spent  
huge  amounts  of  money  on parties  and on gambling.  And he had wealth, but it 
was the kind of property you have to sell first to get money. So, it usually 
took a few days to convert his assets into actual money.  So,  when  he  ran out  
of  cash,  he  had  to  borrow  some  while he  was waiting for his money to 
arrive—but that’s not being poor!  
Second, the conversations with Voltaire: The Chevalier states in his memoir 
that each night, immediately after conversing with Voltaire, he wrote down 
everything he could remember about that particular night’s conversation. 
Evidently, the Chevalier kept his notes of these conversations for many years 
and referred to them when writing the memoir.  Witnesses  who lived  with  the  
Chevalier  in  his  later  life  confirm that he regularly consulted notes and 
journals when composing the memoir.  
Third, the Chevalier’s escape from the prison in Venice: Other prisoners in 
that prison had even more powerful friends than he did, and none of them 
were  ever able to bribe their way to freedom, so bribery hardly seems  likely  in  
his  case.  The  best  evidence,  though,  comes  from some  old Venetian 
government documents. They indicate that soon after the Chevalier escaped 
from the prison, the ceiling of his old prison room had to be repaired. Why 
would they need to repair a ceiling unless he had escaped exactly as he said  
he did?  
Toward the end of his life, the Chevalier de Seingalt (1725−1798) wrote a 
long memoir recounting his life and adventures. The Chevalier was a 
somewhat controversial figure, but since he met many famous people, 
including kings and writers, his memoir has become a valuable historical 
source about European society in the eighteenth century. However, some 
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-64

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
critics have raised doubts about the accuracy of the memoir. They claim that 
the Chevalier distorted or invented many events in the memoir to make his 
life seem more exciting and glamorous than it really was. 
For example, in his memoir the Chevalier claims that while living in 
Switzerland, he was very wealthy, and it is known that he spent a great deal 
of money there on parties and gambling. However, evidence has recently 
surfaced that the Chevalier borrowed considerable sums of money from a 
Swiss merchant. Critics thus argue that if the Chevalier had really been very 
rich, he would not have needed to borrow money. 
Critics are also skeptical about the accuracy of the conversations that the 
Chevalier records in the memoir between himself and the famous writer 
Voltaire. No one doubts that the Chevalier and Voltaire met and conversed. 
However, critics complain that the memoir cannot possibly capture these 
conversations accurately, because it was written many years after the 
conversations occurred. Critics point out that it is impossible to remember 
exact phrases from extended conversations held many years earlier. 
Critics have also questioned the memoir’s account of the Chevalier’s escape  
from a notorious prison in Venice, Italy. He claims to have escaped the 
Venetian prison by using a piece of metal to make a hole in the  ceiling  and 
climbing  through  the  roof. Critics  claim  that while  such a daring escape  
makes for enjoyable reading, it is more likely that the Chevalier’s jailers were  
bribed to free him. They point out that the Chevalier had a number of  
politically well-connected friends in Venice who could have offered a bribe.  
You will now see a question that asks you to summarize the points made in the lecture and to 
explain how they cast doubt on points made in the reading passage. If this were an actual 
TOEFL iBT ® test, you would have 20 minutes to write your response. In this practice test, 
you may write your response and then compare it to the sample responses. 
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-65

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Directions: Read the question below. You have 20 minutes to plan, write and revise your essay. 
Typically, an effective response will contain a minimum of 150-225 words. 
Summarize the points made in the lecture, being sure to explain how they respond to the 
specific points made in the reading passage. 
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-66

 
 
   
 
 
Sample Responses 
Task 1 – This is a mid-level response. 
Giving some logical reasons,the professor is defending the Chevalier;s memoir and making it  
reliable.She uses sophistications to make the critics convince that their  claim on memoir is not 
true.  First of all,she  mentions the issue about borrowing some money from a merchant by 
Chevalier.She thinks the Chevalier was in trouble  with cash and he hadnt enough time to 
prepare it .He hadn't time to sell his own properties and estates to provide the money.so the 
loan is reasonable and it doesnt show his poverty.Secondly,the critics say that he escaped out 
the jail by bribing the watchman.But we know that there  were  more  powerful  men  there  in  the  
jail  with  much  more  powerful  friends  and relations  that made the escape so easir  for them but  
they weren't able to escape.Therefor,we can accept what the Chevalier have said about the 
way he could manage to escape  from the prison using a piece of metal and digging the 
ceiling.And the last reason the critics gives on unreliability of the Chevalier's memoir is that 
the details of the conversation between Chelavier and Voltaire is not truely  mentioned in 
details in the Chelavier's memoir. They believe that there's a long period of time between the 
time they were  conversing and the time  Chelavier wrote that on paper.And it is impossible to 
write the exact talk that was occured at that time.However ,the professor solves the dillema  
easily.In his point of view,the Chevalier had a chance to get the tool due to the watchmen's 
come and go to repair the ceiling.  
Overall  the  professor  is trying  to make  his opinion  seem to  be  true. 
Rationale: 
This  response  is  in  the  medium  writing  proficiency  range. It  would probably  earn  the  score  of  
3  based  on the Integrated Writing Scoring Rubric. The  writer manages to convey some lecture  
information in response to the points made in the reading passage, but some ideas are omitted, 
unclear, or poorly connected. In response to the argument that the Chevalier was poor because  
we know he had to borrow money, the writer explains that the Chevalier was short on cash 
but not necessarily poor  because he had other assets, which took some time to sell. Second, in 
response to the reading argument that the Chevalier probably bribed his way out of prison 
rather than  escaping, the  writer conveys the argument that other, more powerful men were not 
able to escape from the same prison. However, the writer does not clearly explain that they 
were unable to escape through bribery. Finally, the writer summarizes the reading argument 
that the Chevalier would have been unlikely to remember his conversations with Voltaire so 
many years later, but then, confusingly, returns to the Chevalier’s escape from the prison.  
The writer tries to indicate (but not very clearly) that the Chevalier was able to get out of the 
prison by using the tools  of a person who came to repair the  ceiling. Apart from not 
connecting ideas well in this part  of  the  response  and  not  responding  to  the  reading  argument  
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-67

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
about  Voltaire, the  writer  also  conveys  a very imprecise idea of what the lecturer said about 
the ceiling repairs. The errors in the use of language are  fairly frequent in this response  and 
obscure  the meaning of  several ideas. A  few  
examples: “She  uses sophistications to make the critics convince”; “powerful friends and 
relations that made the escape so easier  for them but they weren't able to escape”; “he  could 
manage to escape  from the prison using a piece of metal and digging the ceiling”; “the last 
reason the  critics gives on unreliability of the Chevalier's  memoir  is  that the  details  of  the  
conversation  between  Chelavier  and Voltaire  is  not  truely mentioned in details in the  
Chelavier's memoir.”  
Task 1 – This is a high-level response. 
The professor starts by saying that no memoir is completely accurate but she believes that the 
memoir of the Chevalier de Seingalt was fairly accurate and can be used as a valuable 
hostorical source. Though some critics disagree she is convinced that the memoir is accurate 
about it's details and has given considerable proof in her lecture. 
While living in Switzerland the Chevalier mentions that he was wealthy and that he would 
indulge in extravaganzas like parties and gambling. The new evidence that the Chevalier did, 
infact, borrow money from Swiss merchants does not necessarily mean that he was poor. On 
the contrary the Professor theorizes that the Chevalier had a lot of assets as wealth and it 
would require time for him to convert the assets into readily useable currency. In such 
unfortunate circumstances where his vices would  require  immediate  money  he  would  borrow  
some,  for  the  time  being,  only  to  pay them  back later. Her theory is logical and sound.  
The second piece  critics would like to disclaim as true is the count of all conversations with 
Voltaire which he  recorded with accuracy in his memoir which was penned down years later. 
The professor puts forward the fact that the Chevalier would dutifuly make  a note of the entire  
length of the conversation  every night  after  meeting  with  Voltaire. Such  an  act  is  confirmed by 
witnesses  who  saw  the Chevalier refer to journals and notes while writing his memoir.  
The final piece is the account of the dramatic jail break from Venice where he used a piece of 
metal to crerate a hole in the roof and then escaped. Such an account, though hard to believe, 
might actually be true as the Professor points out to some Italian government records dating 
back to that time which shows repairs being carried out to the cieling of the very same cell in 
which the Chevalier was imprisoned. 
Though  it may  seem  a  bit  dramatic  and over  the  top,  on the  outset,  the  Professor  is  convinced 
that the memoirs of the Chevalier were true and accurate and could be used as a historical 
reference towards eighteenth century Europe.  
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-68

 
Rationale: 
This  response  is  in  the  high  writing  proficiency  range.  It  would probably  earn  the  score  of  5 
based  on the Integrated Writing Scoring Rubric. The response is well organized, conveys the  
important information from all three lecture points, and connects it well with information that 
was presented in the reading passage. In response to the reading argument that the Chevalier 
de Seingalt exaggerated his wealth because we know he was forced to borrow money; the  
writer correctly conveys the lecturer’s argument that the Chevalier needed the loans only 
because his considerable  assets could not always be quickly converted into cash. In response 
to the argument that the  Chevalier could not possibly remember his  conversations  with  
Voltaire  so  many  years  later,  the  writer  conveys  that  the Chevalier  based his  memoirs on 
extensive notes he took at the time of his conversations with the famous author. Finally, in 
response to the argument that the Chevalier’s description of his escape from prison through a  
hole in a ceiling is hard to believe, the writer conveys the argument that the  Chevalier’s 
account is supported by the historical records describing ceiling repairs in the prison where he  
was held. There are a  few minor language  errors (“it's details”, “count of all conversations”, 
“records… which shows repairs being carried out”, “on the outset”) but they do not interfere  
with meaning in any way. In fact, the  writer is very skilled in using sophisticated and accurate 
paraphrasing to convey the content from the lecture and the passage. A few examples:  “he  
would indulge in extravaganzas like parties and gambling”; “conversations with Voltaire  
which he recorded with accuracy in his memoir which was penned down years later”; “repairs 
being carried out to the cieling [ceiling] of the very same cell in which the  Chevalier was 
imprisoned.”  
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-69

 
 
 
 
 
  
Writing for an Academic Discussion 
For this task, you will read an online discussion. A professor has posted a question about a 
topic, and some classmates have responded with their ideas. 
Write a response that contributes to the discussion. In the actual test, you will have 10 
minutes to write your response. It is important to use your own words in the response. 
Including memorized reasons or examples will result in a lower score. 
This practice test will show you mid-level and high-level sample responses. 
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-70

