 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Writing Practice Task 2 
Your professor is teaching a class on sociology. Write a post responding to the professor’s question. 
In your response you should: 
• 
express and support your opinion 
• 
make a contribution to the discussion 
An effective response will contain at least 100 words. 
Dr. Diaz  
Over the next few weeks, we are going to look at lots of different materials about the role of 
television programs  and television watching in people’s lives. But first, I want to know what you 
think about this topic. So here’s a question for the  class discussion board:  
What do you think is the most significant effect that watching television has on people? Why do 
you think television has this effect?  
Kelly  
I know that one way that television influences people’s behavior is that when you are  watching 
television, you are not moving around or exercising. This is especially true for children. The  
American Academy of Pediatrics says that when children spend a lot of time watching 
television, they have a greater tendency to be overweight.  
Paul  
I think the main effect that television has on people is to broaden their  experience. There  are so 
many programs devoted to nature and travel. Think of all the different places in the world you 
can experience through television! Last night I  watched a program about life in Antarctica, and 
it was fascinating!  
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-71

Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-72

 
 
 
  
 
Sample Responses 
Task 2 – This is a mid-level response.  
In my opinion, television makes the life more interesting and fun. There are so many 
interesting channels and programs, and they make people laugh during watching TV. I think 
this is a big effect that television on people, as time is passing by. Especially these days, 
people lives with the serious problems and accidents. People need something fresh and can 
entertain. Televisions do these kind of works very well. Through Music program, people can 
have relaxing time, through comedy program, people can laugh... and so on. Therefore, the 
television influences people's feeling much better, and I think this is very important effect!! 
Rationale: 
This essay is in the medium writing proficiency range. It would probably earn the score of 3 
based on the Academic  Discussion Scoring Rubric. It is a mostly understandable contribution 
to the discussion. The writer provides a different point of view than either Kelly or Paul, 
arguing that TV “makes the life more interesting.” (But including the article “the” in “the life”  
is a mistake. The correct phrase is “makes life more interesting.”) The writer then explains 
why people welcome a bit of TV fun: they “lives with the serious problems and accidents” 
(the correct phrasing would be “they live with serious problems or experience accidents”), 
and “through Music program” (should be  “when watching music programs”) they can relax, 
“through comedy program” (should be “when watching comedy programs”) they can laugh, 
and so on. But there is quite of bit of repetition of the same idea: TV is fun and makes people 
laugh. Also, some ideas are unclear: what does the writer mean by “as time is passing by” in 
the third sentence? The  writer seems unable to provide many clearly expressed details or  to 
elaborate on the basic ideas, and so the contribution to the discussion feels only partly 
successful. There  are noticeable errors in almost every sentence. In addition to the ones  
indicated above, there is “a big effect that television on people” (which should read “a big 
effect that television has on people”), “People need something fresh and can entertain”  (which 
should read “People need something fresh and entertaining”), and others. However, most of 
the meaning is still understandable despite the errors.  
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-73

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Task 2 – This is a high-level response.  
In my opinion, Paul is right when he says that watching television might broaden your 
experience. By watching for example science programs, you can gain valueable insights into 
new topics. On the other hand, I think that a high percentage of people don't watch TV to 
increase their knowledge. I am of the opinion that many people watch TV in order to get 
distracted from their real lives. They watch films or series to be entertained and to forget 
problems they have at work or in their private lives. At least for me this works well - for 
instance if I am sad, I watch a comedy or a funny soap opera and afterwards, I am in a better 
mood. Therefore, I think that being entertained and distracted is the most significant effect of 
TV. 
Rationale:  
This response is in the high writing proficiency range. It would probably earn the score of 5 
based on the Academic  Discussion Scoring Rubric. The writer conveys complex and well-
argued ideas that contribute nicely to the discussion. While the writer mentions Paul’s point  
of view, the writer does not just repeat it. Instead, the writer takes Paul’s ideas as the starting 
point, and goes on to present a different point of view, arguing that watching TV is not mainly 
educational but rather a  relaxing experience. The  writer then goes on to develop this point of 
view, explaining why people need to relax, and providing the writer’s own personal 
experiences: why the writer usually watches TV, which programs, and so on.  
The language the writer uses has a nice variety, both in how the sentences are formed and in 
the range of the vocabulary used. There are almost no errors; the word “valuable” in the  
second sentence is misspelled, but that may be expected from even competent writers writing  
under timed  conditions, as the Scoring Rubric explains.  
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-74

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thank you for completing the TOEFL iBT® Free Practice Test! 
For  a  simulation  of  the  real  TOEFL  iBT®  testing  experience,  try  TOEFL®  
Practice  Online.  
TOEFL Practice Online is the only official practice test that gives you the 
experience of taking the real TOEFL iBT test with real past test questions from 
all four sections. You will be able to review and answer authentic test questions 
and receive scores within 24 hours, with performance feedback on all 4 skills 
measured on the test — reading, listening, speaking and writing. 
You can take the practice test at home, at school or wherever there is an 
Internet connection — 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Each volume has a 
different set of questions, so you can practice a few times to prepare for success 
on the test. 
TOEFL Practice Online and other official practice materials can be purchased 
through your ETS Account.  
Ready to take the test? 
Register Now 
Copyright © 2023 by ETS. All rights reserved. ETS, the ETS logo, TOEFL and TOEFL IBT 
are registered trademarks of ETS. TOEFL GOLEARN! and the T logo are trademarks of 
ETS. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


page_number:-75

